# Mining YouTube Data
This repo contains the Mining YouTube Data using Python project as part of my data science portfolio. There are two parts in this project: The first part - About YouTube is an introduction of YouTube, its history and some interesting statistics. The second part - Mining YouTube Data using Python contains the Python code to work with YouTube Data API in order to extract data and perform various analysis on YouTube videos.

## Why YouTube?
With a huge collection of videos attracting billions of views from users each month, the resulting data generated by YouTube is enormous. Data like view count, like count, dislike count, user comments, etc are all valuable data that can be extracted and analyzed to uncover insights about user preferences and sentiment towards a particular video or a particular cause e.g. the Ice Bucket Challenge, sometimes called the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge that went viral on YouTube few years ago. It also presents valuable information to marketers in their decision-making process of promoting a particular product or service. A fun example would be a movie studio, having uploaded a new movie trailer on their YouTube channel and would like to know about viewers' response towards the upcoming movie. Statistics on the movie trailer such as view count, like count and user comments can help marketers to gauge the market response to the movie and allocate their marketing budget accordingly. This is the primary motivation behind this project. In this project, I have extracted and analyzed some interesting statistics about popular superhero movies from both Disney/Marvel and Warner Bros/DC such as Infinity War, Justice League, Black Panther, Wonder Woman and Aquaman.

## The Process
In this project, I have used YouTube Data API v3 to extract data about videos and retrieve their statistics such as number of views, likes, dislikes, comments, etc. Then I converted these statistics into pandas DataFrame for further analysis. Analysis performed included ranking the most popular videos by view count and like count, and analyzing view count by day of the week. In the last part of this project, I have also extracted the comments from a YouTube video and performed wordcloud visualization on the most popular words, and followed by sentiment analysis using NLTK (the Natural Language Toolkit, or more commonly NLTK, is a suite of libraries and programs for symbolic and statistical natural language processing for English written in the Python programming language).